# National-Car-Test---2018-Dataset-Exploratory-Analysis

The National Car Test is a compulsory test for vehicles in Ireland. 
The test is carried out as a preventive measure to make sure that the vehicles used by people in Ireland are subjected to a safety check at periodic intervals. 
NCT has its own merits as regular checks can ensure what is wrong with the vehicle which can be fixed resulting into a longer vehicle life, less consumption of fuel and most importantly less accidents due to vehicle failures. By doing the exploratory data visualization of the NCT-2018 pass-fail data set we can get insights of questions like – In which test domain most of the cars are failing, which company has les failure rate in comparison to other. All these questions can help the car manufacturing companies to make fixes into their vehicle models before launching the vehicle

Several conclusions were drawn from the data visualization. Some of them are - Derryberg centre performance increased in the re-test better than any other centres. Most of the companies having either 100% or 0% Pass percentage had very low models tested. Major failure areas were Lightning and Electrical department followed by Steering/Suspension and wheels and tyres. When comparing the fail statistics of Toyota, Volkswagen and Ford (based on most models tested) it can be seen that these companies have also failed majorly in lighting and electrical department. One thing which can be noticed is that the performance of side-slip test of Toyota is better than other two companies.
After analysing the co-relation plot between different tests it can be seen that brake test and braking equipment has a linear relationship meaning if one vehicle fails in break test then it is more susceptible to fail in breaking equipment test which is quite logical. Another similar co-relation is between Suspension test and Wheels and tyres which can also be interpreted as suspension and wheels are highly dependable on each other. If suspensions are not balanced then tyres will wear out unevenly which can be fatal for the vehicle.
